Once upon a time, in a village called Mahabaleshwar, there lived a rich man by name Balvinder Singh.
He had the only son by name Yashwant, who was inactive and non-focus towards life.
He had no interest in anything, so much that he did not even focus on his studies.
All he would do is roam with his friends all the day.
Then one day...
Son, Yashwant, concentrate on your studies now.
You are growing.
Don't roam around with your friends all the time.
You need to study now.
Papa, why do I need to study at all?
As we are rich, and should I do a clerical job by studying now?
Why are you insisting me to study?
Son, Yashwant, knowledge is divine.
One should study to become wise, but not to do a clerical job.
One should know wise ways to live, and one can get it only through gurus.
There is a lot to learn in this world, my boy, and you should start paying attention,
alright?
Papa, I am not interested in studying, and please do not force me to study.
Please leave me alone.
Balvinder ponders upon how to change his son, as Yashwant is arrogant and not ready to study.
Meanwhile, his wife Amarbir comes there.
She sees him worried, and tries to convince him.
Please do not bother yourself.
He is our only son, and we have pampered him a lot.
He is still too young.
It will all be good with the passing time.
That's true.
We pampered him as he was a small boy.
But now, he is not.
If he continues to be a lazy bone, I am afraid of his future.
And he does not understand my intentions.
I am clueless about his future.
There is only one way out to get rid of this problem.
He must be away from us, and his friends.
That is the only solution I see for now, for him to realise the importance of life.
Oh God!
To send away our only child.
Can you stay without him?
We should take this tough decision for his good future.
Till now, we were pampering him.
But now, when we ask him to change, he sees us as his enemies.
So sending him away is the only solution.
Our love should help him to grow.
And that happens only when he studies well and away from us.
This is what I think.
Do you agree with this?
I like the idea.
But where can we get a teacher who can be patient with him, to teach him properly?
Of course.
We have Acharya Vishnu Sharma, the most efficient teacher in a nearby village.
Even my brother's son, Satbir, was mischievous like our son.
But now, he has changed a lot in his behaviour and attitude.
Hence, we will send our son also in his ashram.
Fine.
You talk to your son and crack the deal.
I will talk to Vishnu Sharmaji and take Yashwant to ashram, tomorrow itself.
Sure.
I will talk to my brother and find out details.
You start the preparations.
Okay, I will.
After having a word with a husband about the admission and travel, Amarbeer thinks of
way to mend her son for the journey.
Meanwhile, Yashwant reaches home.
Seeing her mother in a state of deep thought, he asks her,
Maa, did you have your lunch?
Or are you waiting for me to turn up?
How could I have my meal without you, my dear son?
We both will have it together.
I overheard you and your father talking about something this morning.
What was that about?
Ah Maa, you always pesters me to study and does not listen to whatever I say.
No dear.
Do not say this.
You need to do something productive in life.
What should I do Maa?
Nothing Maa, son.
We have one of the best scholars in the world in our nearby village, by named Acharya Vishnu
Sharma.
Your father wants you to go there to pursue your education.
And I told him that you would never deny my desire, because I am sure you are ready
to go.
Am I right?
How come I will go Maa?
You know I am not interested in studies at all.
Don't worry my son.
You need not have to study there.
But just go with your father and observe the environment and you come back if you don't
like it.
Sure Maa, I will go because it is your desire and to stay away from father.
He scolds me and pesters me to study all the time.
I am going only because you are saying and if I don't like it, I will come back very
soon.
Yashwant decides to go to Vishnu Sharma's ashram only to escape from his father.
Accordingly, Balvinder sends a message to Guruji Vishnu Sharma about their arrival.
Acharya used to live there with a small family.
A wife named Lakshmi and a small son named Aditya.
Lakshmi, our Zameendal Mr. Balvinder is bringing his son, master Yashwant to our ashram.
He will stay with us until I make him a competent person.
All glory to God.
All your disciples have achieved big in life.
They have earned a good name for themselves in society all because of your education.
And now I suggest that you please start with the same process with our son Aditya too.
I think it's the right age.
Oh sure, why not?
I would love to have my son as my disciple.
I will start the training from tomorrow.
Next day Balvinder arrives at Vishnu Sharma's ashram with Yashwant.
He met Acharya and told him.
Namaskar Guruji, here is my son Yashwant and I am leaving him with you in your ashram.
Now it is your responsibility to shape him into a wise and competent person.
Sure Balvinder ji, in no time your son will excel in all the areas of competency.
Yashwant, you should concentrate on your studies.
If you do what I tell you to do, you will become wise and soon you will return home
as a wise boy.
And Yashwant, meet my son Aditya.
He is younger to you in age but I am starting the training along with you.
So you both should enjoy learning.
Now go inside the ashram.
After Yashwant goes inside the ashram, Balvinder starts talking to Acharya Vishnu Sharma and
requested.
Acharya, my son is your responsibility from today.
I request you to teach some common sense and culture to him.
Good God!
Why do you say that Balvinder ji?
Your son seems well mannered Acharya.
He is not the person as he seems.
He is lazy, stubborn and does not pay attention to what I say and he thinks me as his biggest
enemy.
Hence we thought of joining our son in your ashram and training.
I am worried about his future.
I am clueless.
How will you change and deal with him?
I hope he behaves himself with you here.
Don't you worry.
Yashwant is immature.
He will gradually learn everything and I am confident he will be responsible and competent
in no time.
He will be wiser when you see him next.
I have full faith in you Guru ji.
I will see you soon.
Balvinder takes leave from Acharya and starts proceeding towards home.
And from the very next day morning, training started for Yashwant.
So, Yashwant, I am starting your training from today and you will have to be prompt
in your approach and should do everything by yourself.
That is the way of my ashram.
You will have to abide by rules.
Understand?
Yashwant bursts in anger after listening to Guru ji's words.
In a deeply saddened tone, he told Guru ji,
Guru ji, you are also like father, always dictating me what to do and when to do.
I came here to stay away from such instructions.
I don't want to do anything.
Is that so?
But you cannot shout at me like this way.
This is not your house and you will have to face the music if you do not follow my instructions.
Understand boy?
Acharya said in a stern voice,
Yashwant follows half-heartedly whatever the Guru instructs as he does not want to
go back to his father.
That's why there was no other way out.
Then one fine day,
Yashwant, I asked you to buy a heart a shlok yesterday and reproduce the same today.
Did you do that?
Guru ji, I have not learnt it yet.
Okay?
Don't you understand what I say?
I reiterated that you would have to face a punishment if you do not follow what I say
and read aloud the shlok for 100 times today and that is your punishment.
All this became an everyday routine.
However, Yashwant started to follow whatever Acharya said.
Over the period, he developed hatred towards this Guru, thinking that his Guru is consciously
forcing him to do all nonsense and his Guru does not love him at all.
This routine follows for a couple of more days.
Then one fine day,
Yashwant, we are going for a marriage to a nearby village.
Take care of yourself and Aditya.
Ask him to buy a heart all the shloks.
If you do not remind him about the shloks, he will play all throughout the day.
Play outside and waste his time.
I don't want that happening.
Alright?
Will you do that?
I will take care Guru ji.
Giving Aditya's responsibility to Yashwant, Vishnu Sharma leaves along with his wife to
a nearby village for a marriage.
And Yashwant deems it as a respect to take up the responsibility of his Guru's son.
He said,
Listen Aditya, Guru ji has assigned me your responsibility, so you should obey whatever
I say until he comes back.
Do you understand that?
Tell me.
Yes my dear brother, but I want to play now, so please leave me and let me play a little.
My dear little brother, I cannot allow you to play until you buy a heart all the shloks
for the day.
Yashwant tries his level best to mend Aditya and let him learn the shloka by showing his
authority.
But even after four days, Aditya could not get the shloka by heart, as his entire concentration
was on playing.
Evidently, Yashwant was very upset about this.
What is this Aditya?
How come you are unable to learn a small shloka despite being the son to a scholar?
If you do not read the shloka now, then I will have to punish you.
So please read it Aditya, brother, nothing is going into my head, please leave me.
Let me play.
This way Aditya does not pay attention to Yashwant's words and does not concentrate
on his studies and plays all the time.
However, Yashwant wants to try his luck for one final time.
So he calls up Aditya and tells him, Aditya, if you do not recite the shloka today, I
will punish you.
Understand?
You do whatever you want.
I cannot study and I will not recite the shloka.
Yaring up on such an arrogant answer, Yashwant loses his temper and slaps Aditya.
The slap was so hard that his cheek turned red.
Little Aditya went inside crying and started learning shloka.
Oh God, I slapped my Guru's son out of anger.
Now what will happen?
What will happen now?
Yashwant was terrified and lost in his thoughts.
But he observed that Aditya started reading with utmost concentration.
Very next day, Acharya Vishnu Sharma returned home along with his wife.
Subsequently, Aditya complained about Yashwant slapping him on the face.
Ma, ma, see, how brother slapped on my face.
It swelled too and it hurts a lot.
Oh my God, Yashwant, why did you slap this hurt?
It's hurt him so bad, his cheeks are red like apple.
Ma, I warned him many a times to recite the shloka, but he did not pay an ear to what
I said and played all the time.
So to bring him back on track, I had to slap him.
What do you expect me to say?
I entrusted Aditya's responsibility to Yashwant and he did his duty.
He asked our son to recite the shloka, to which he denied, so there is no other way
for a Guru rather than to punish the student.
One can pamper the kid in all other aspects, but not in studies.
One is not a teacher if they do not discipline the student.
As a teacher, one wants all the disciples to progress and achieve greater heights in
life.
Yashwant also did the same.
You go inside.
I will talk to Yashwant.
While listening to their conversation, Yashwant understood his Guru's intentions and remembered
his father, who tried to sort the issue with love.
His father wanted to see him grow and reach heights, but he never paid attention.
Acharya, you should forgive my ignorance.
I never understood your good intentions.
I developed hatred upon you and always thought you are persisting me to study, but never
realized it is for my bright future.
Now I will study hard, Guruji.
Yashwant, you should apologize to your parents, not to me.
Remember, parents are our first teachers.
They always wish child's good and bright future.
If you become wise and cultured, you would be the one to be benefited.
Without realizing this, you hated your parents.
The one who wants you to achieve greater heights will fight for your good and wants to choose
good and wise path.
Remember so as you reap.
Concentrate on your studies and do well in life.
Acharyaji, I am indebted to you.
Thank you for your lessons.
From that day onwards, he followed the footsteps of his Guru and completed his education within
no time and returned to his village.
Upon his return, he took all the responsibilities from his parents and looked after them happily
forever.
Please like and share the video if you like the story.
Kindly subscribe to our new stories book Telugu Channel for more stories.
