Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening, Assalamu alaikum,
lovely to see you all here tonight. We are having a very entertaining night, are we not,
with some very interesting things being said. From the other side of the house tonight,
let me begin by saying, as a Muslim, as a representative of Islam, I would consider
myself an ambassador for Islam, a believer in Islam, a follower of Islam and its prophet.
So in that capacity, let me begin by apologising to Anne-Marie for the Bali bombings, I apologise
for the role of my religion and me and my people, for the killing of Theo van Gogh,
yes, that was all of us. That was Islam, that was Muslims, that was the Quran. I mean, astonishing,
astonishing claims to make in the very first speech tonight on a day like today where the
Conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is having to come out and point out that these
kind of views are anathema and I believe you're trying to stand for the Labour Party to become
an MP in Brighton. If you do and you make these comments, I'm guessing you'll have the
whip withdrawn from you, but then again, UKIP's on the rise, they'll take you, the BNP, they
might have something to say about your views. This is what Mehdi Hassan always does. By
the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, just on a factual point, since
we heard a lot about the second speaker about how backward we Muslims all are, on a factual
point, you said that Islam was born in Saudi Arabia, Islam was born in 610 AD, Saudi Arabia
was born in 1932 AD, so you were only 1322 years off. Not bad, not bad start there.
Talking of maths, by the way, a man named Al-Qawarizmi was one of the greatest mathematicians
of all time, a Muslim, worked in the golden age of Islam. He's the guy who came up with
not just algebra, but algorithms. Without algorithms you wouldn't have laptops. Without
laptops, Daniel Johnson tonight wouldn't have been able to print out his speech in which
he came to berate us Muslims for holding back the advance and intellectual achievements
of the West, which all happened without any contribution from anyone else other than the
Judeo-Christian people of Europe. In fact, Daniel David Levering, the author of the Pulitzer
Prize winning historian and author of the Golden Crucible, points out that there would
be no renaissance, there would be no reformation in Europe without the role played by Ibn Sina
and Ibn Rushd and some of the great Muslim theologians, philosophers, scientists in bringing
Greek tech to Europe.
As for this being our university, I will leave that to the imagination as to who is our
and who is there. I studied here too. An astonishing, astonishing set of speeches so far making
this case tonight. A mixture of just cherry-picked quotes, facts and figures, self-serving,
selective, a farrago of distortions, misrepresentations, misinterpretations, misquotations.
Daniel talked about my article in the New Statesman which got me a lot of flak where
I talked about the anti-Semitism that is prevalent in some parts of the Muslim community, which
indeed it is. Of course, I didn't say in that piece that it was caused by the religion of Islam.
In fact, modern anti-Semitism in the Middle East was imported from, finish the sentence,
Judeo-Christian Europe where I believe some certain bad things happened to the Jewish
people. In fact, Tom Friedman, Jewish American columnist in the New York Times, told me in
this very chamber last week that he believed, had Muslims been running Europe in the 1940s,
six million extra Jews would still be alive today. So I'm not going to take lessons in
anti-Semitism from someone who's here to defend the Judeo-Christian values of a continent
that murdered six million Jews. Moving swiftly on. Moving swiftly on. Yes.
Absolutely.
Well, I'm about to rate that point. No, no, no. I'm about to rate that point. You're right.
I agree with you. I agree with you. I agree with you 110%. That is my point. I don't
think Europe is evil or bad. I'm a very proud European. I don't want to judge Europe on
the basis, but if we're going to play this gutter game where we pull out the Bali bombing
and we pull out examples of anti-Semitism in the Islamic community, then of course I'm
going to come back and say, well, hold on. I mean, look, let's be very clear. Daniel
here was a last minute replacement for Douglas Murray who had to pull out. And Douglas and
I have a well-documented differences, but to be fair to Douglas, as to be fair to Anne
and to Peter, atheists. Atheists see all religions as evil, violent, threatening. The problem
I have with Daniel's speech is that Daniel comes here to write this robust defense of
Christianity, forgetting that his fellow Christians, people who said they were acting in the name
of Jesus, gave us the Crusades, the Spanish Inquisition, the anti-Jewish pogroms, European
colonialism in Africa and Asia, the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, not to mention
countless arson and bomb attacks on abortion clinics in the United States of America to
this very day, I would like a little bit of humility from Daniel first before he begins
lecturing other communities and other faiths on violence, terror and intolerance.
But, no thank you.
But I would say this, to address the gentleman's very valid point here, I'm not going to play
that game. I don't actually believe that Christianity is a religion of violence and hate because
of what the LRA does in Uganda or what Crusaders did to Jews and Muslims in Jerusalem when
they took back the city in the 12th or 13th or whatever century it was. I believe that
Christianity, like Islam, like pretty much every mainstream religion, is based on love
and compassion and faith. I do follow a religion in which 113 out of the 114 chapters of the
Quran begins by introducing the God of Islam as a God of mercy and compassion. I would
not have it any other way. I don't follow a religion which introduces my God to me as
a God of war, as some kind of Greek God of wrath, as a God of hate and injustice. Not
at all. As Adam pointed out, you go through the Quran and you see the mercy and the love
and the justice. And yes, you have verses that refer to warfare and violence. Of course it
does. This is not a motion about pacifism. I'm not here to argue that Islam is a pacifistic
faith. It is not. Islam allows military action, violence in certain limited contexts. And
yes, a minority of Muslims do take it out of that context. But is it religious? We've
talked about Woolwich. Daniel and Anne-Marie have suggested that it's definitely religion
that's behind all of this. Well, actually, what I find so amusing tonight is we're having
a debate about Islam and the opposition tonight have come forward. We have a graduate in law,
a graduate in modern history, a graduate in chemistry. I admire all of their intellects
and their abilities, but we don't have anyone who's actually an expert on Islam, a scholar
of Islam, a historian of Islam, a speaker of Arabic, even a terrorism expert or a security
expert or a pollster, let alone to talk about what Muslims believe or think. Instead, we
have people coming here, putting forward these views, putting forward these sweeping opinions.
Listen to Professor Robert Pape of the University of Chicago, one of America's leading terrorism
experts, who, unlike our esteemed opposition tonight, studied every single case of suicide
terrorism between 1980 and 2005, 315 cases in total. And he concluded, and I quote,
There is little connection between suicide terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism or any
of the world's religions, rather what nearly all suicide terrorist attacks have in common
is a specific secular and strategic goal to compel modern democracies to withdraw military
forces from territory that the terrorists consider to be their homeland. And the irony
is, when we talk about terrorism, the irony is that the opposition and the Muslim terrorists,
the Al-Qaeda types, actually have one thing in common, because they both believe that
Islam is a war-like, violent religion. They both agree on that. They have everything in
common. Osama bin Laden would be nodding along to everything he's heard tonight from the
opposition side. He agrees with them. The problem is, the problem is that mainstream
Muslims don't. The majority of Muslims around the world don't. In fact, a gentleman here
has started quoting all sorts of polls. Gallup carried out the biggest poll of Muslims around
the world of 50,000 Muslims in 35 countries. 93% of Muslims rejected 9-11 and suicide attacks.
And of the 7% who didn't, they all, when polled and focus groups, cited political
reasons for their support for violence, not religious reasons. And as for Islamic scholars
and what they say, well, Daniel talks about our University of Oxford. We'll go down to
Oxford's Centre for Islamic Studies, get hold of a man named Sheikh Afifi al-Aqiti, who
is a massively well-credentialed and well-respected Islamic scholar who has studied across the
world, who in the days after 7.7 published a fatwa denouncing terrorism in the name of
Islam, calling for the protection of all non-combatants at all times, and describing
suicide bombings as an innovation with no basis in Islamic law. Go and listen to Sheikh
Tahir ul-Qadri, one of Pakistan's most famous Islamic scholars, who published a 600-page
fatwa condemning the killing of all innocents and all suicide bombings unconditionally
without any ifs or buts. There's nothing new here. This is mainstream Islam, mainstream
scholarship, which has said this for years. You don't go out and kill people willy-nilly
in the high street or anywhere else on a bus or a mall based on verses of the Qur'an that
you cherry pick without any context, any understanding, any interpretation or any commentary.
I didn't say it doesn't happen at all. I never said it didn't happen. I don't blame
Islam. Yes, it's a very good point. And a lot of us, a lot of us are campaigning against
that. And we're campaigning against it in the name of Islam. We're campaigning against
it in the name of various interpretations of Islam. Anne-Marie comes and scares us with
her talk of Sharia law. I would like to see the book of Sharia law. It doesn't exist.
People argue over what Sharia law is. And you empower the extremists by saying there
is only one version. You empower them all. I don't believe you took any interruptions,
Anne-Marie. So I think you should stay there for a moment. Here's what we're dealing with.
I took your point. I took your point. Here we are dealing with a 1400 year old global
religion followed by 1.6 billion people in every corner of the world, a quarter of humanity
of all backgrounds, cultures, ethnicities. And yet the opposition tonight wants to generalize,
stereotype, smear in order to desperately win this debate. And here's my question if
we're going to generalize and smear. If, okay, people say yesterday's bombers, and we've
got to be careful, there's a trial going on, were yesterday's attackers, sorry, motivated
by Islam? Big debate. I don't believe they were. Let's say they were. Let's say Faisal
Shahzad, the Times Square bomber, was motivated by Islam. Let's assume for sake of argument
that Richard Reeves, the shoe bomber, was motivated by Islam. If Islam is responsible
for these killings, if Islam is what is motivating these people, and Islam is therefore not a
religion of peace or religion of war, then ask yourself this question. Why aren't the
rest of us doing it? Why is it such a tiny minority of Muslims are interpreting their
religion in the way that the opposition claim they are? Let's assume there are 16,000 suicide
bombers in the world. There aren't. Let's assume there are for the sake of argument.
That's 0.001% of the Muslim population globally. What about the other 99.99% of Muslims who
the opposition tonight either ignore or smear? The reality is that the rest of us aren't
blowing ourselves up tonight. The reality is that the opposition came here tonight not
worried about the fact that me and Adam might pull open our jackets and blow ourselves up
tonight because we're followers of a war-like warrior religion which wants to take over
Europe and Daniels University. The issue is this. The issue is this. Unless the opposition
can tell us tonight, and Peter Atkins is here, one of our great atheist intellectuals, can
tell us tonight. Can they answer this question tonight? Why don't the vast majority of
Muslims around the world behave as violently and aggressively as a tiny minority of politically
motivated extremists? Then they might as well give up and stop pretending they have
anything relevant to say about Islam or Muslims as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just
say this to you. Think about what the opposite of this motion is. If you vote no tonight,
think about what you're saying the opposite of this motion is. That Islam isn't a religion
of peace. It's a religion of war, of violence, of terror, of aggression. That the people
who follow Islam, me, my wife, my retired parents, my six-year-old child, that 1.8 million
of your fellow British residents and citizens, that 1.6 billion people across the world,
your fellow human beings, are all followers, promoters, believers in a religion of violence.
Do you really think that? Do you really believe that to be the case? They say that in the
Oxford Union the most famous debate was in 1933 when Adolf Hitler looked out for the
result of the King and Country motion where they voted against fighting for King and Country
and Hitler was listening out for the result. Well, tonight, 80 years on, there are two
groups of people around the world who I would argue are waiting for the result of tonight's
vote. There are the millions of peaceful, non-violent, law-abiding Muslims both in the
UK, Europe, Asia, Africa and beyond who see Islam as the source of their identity, as
a source of spiritual fulfilment, of hope, of solace. And there are the phobes, the haters,
the bigots out there who want to push the clash of civilisations, who want to divide
all of us into them and us and ours and their. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you all not to
fuel the arguments of the phobes and bigots. Don't legitimise their divisions. Don't legitimise
their hate. Trust those Muslims who you know, who you've met, who you hear, who don't
believe in violence, who do want you to hear the peaceful message of the Quran as they
believe it to be taught to the majority of Muslims. The Islam of peace and compassion
and mercy. The Islam of the Quran, not of al-Qaeda. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg to propose
this motion to the House. I urge you to vote yes tonight. Thank you very much for your
time.
Thank you.
